Master , master , look about you : who goes there , ha ?
HORTENSIO : Peace , Grumio !
it is the rival of my love .
Petruchio , stand by a while .
GRUMIO : A proper stripling and an amorous !
GREMIO : O , very well ; I have perused the note .
Hark you , sir : I 'll have them very fairly bound : All books of love , see that at any hand ; And see you read no other lectures to her : You understand me : over and beside Signior Baptista 's liberality , I 'll mend it with a largess .
Take your paper too , And let me have them very well perfumed For she is sweeter than perfume itself To whom they go to .
What will you read to her ?
LUCENTIO : Whate'er I read to her , I 'll plead for you As for my patron , stand you so assured , As firmly as yourself were still in place : Yea , and perhaps with more successful words Than you , unless you were a scholar , sir .
GREMIO : O this learning , what a thing it is !
GRUMIO : O this woodcock , what an ass it is !
PETRUCHIO : Peace , sirrah !
HORTENSIO : Grumio , mum !
God save you , Signior Gremio .
GREMIO : And you are well met , Signior Hortensio .
Trow you whither I am going ?
To Baptista Minola .
I promised to inquire carefully About a schoolmaster for the fair Bianca : And by good fortune I have lighted well On this young man , for learning and behavior Fit for her turn , well read in poetry And other books , good ones , I warrant ye .
HORTENSIO : 'T is well ; and I have met a gentleman Hath promised me to help me to another , A fine musician to instruct our mistress ; So shall I no whit be behind in duty To fair Bianca , so beloved of me .
GREMIO : Beloved of me ; and that my deeds shall prove .
GRUMIO : And that his bags shall prove .
HORTENSIO : Gremio , 't is now no time to vent our love : Listen to me , and if you speak me fair , I 'll tell you news indifferent good for either .
Here is a gentleman whom by chance I met , Upon agreement from us to his liking , Will undertake to woo curst Katharina , Yea , and to marry her , if her dowry please .
GREMIO : So said , so done , is well .
Hortensio , have you told him all her faults ?
PETRUCHIO : I know she is an irksome brawling scold : If that be all , masters , I hear no harm .
GREMIO : No , say'st me so , friend ?
What countryman ?
PETRUCHIO : Born in Verona , old Antonio 's son : My father dead , my fortune lives for me ; And I do hope good days and long to see .
GREMIO : O sir , such a life , with such a wife , were strange !
But if you have a stomach , to't i ' God 's name : You shall have me assisting you in all .
But will you woo this wild-cat ?
PETRUCHIO : Will I live ?
GRUMIO : Will he woo her ?
ay , or I 'll hang her .
PETRUCHIO : Why came I hither but to that intent ?
Think you a little din can daunt mine ears ?
Have I not in my time heard lions roar ?
Have I not heard the sea puff 'd up with winds Rage like an angry boar chafed with sweat ?
Have I not heard great ordnance in the field , And heaven 's artillery thunder in the skies ?
Have I not in a pitched battle heard Loud 'larums , neighing steeds , and trumpets ' clang ?
And do you tell me of a woman 's tongue , That gives not half so great a blow to hear As will a chestnut in a farmer 's fire ?
Tush , tush !
fear boys with bugs .
GRUMIO : For he fears none .
GREMIO : Hortensio , hark : This gentleman is happily arrived , My mind presumes , for his own good and ours .
HORTENSIO : I promised we would be contributors And bear his charging of wooing , whatsoe'er .
GREMIO : And so we will , provided that he win her .
GRUMIO : I would I were as sure of a good dinner .
TRANIO : Gentlemen , God save you .
If I may be bold , Tell me , I beseech you , which is the readiest way To the house of Signior Baptista Minola ?
BIONDELLO : He that has the two fair daughters : is't he you mean ?
TRANIO : Even he , Biondello .
GREMIO : Hark you , sir ; you mean not her to -- TRANIO : Perhaps , him and her , sir : what have you to do ?
PETRUCHIO : Not her that chides , sir , at any hand , I pray .
TRANIO : I love no chiders , sir .
Biondello , let 's away .
LUCENTIO : Well begun , Tranio .
HORTENSIO : Sir , a word ere you go ; Are you a suitor to the maid you talk of , yea or no ?
TRANIO : And if I be , sir , is it any offence ?
GREMIO : No ; if without more words you will get you hence .
TRANIO : Why , sir , I pray , are not the streets as free For me as for you ?
GREMIO : But so is not she .
TRANIO : For what reason , I beseech you ?
GREMIO : For this reason , if you 'll know , That she 's the choice love of Signior Gremio .
HORTENSIO : That she 's the chosen of Signior Hortensio .
TRANIO : Softly , my masters !
if you be gentlemen , Do me this right ; hear me with patience .
Baptista is a noble gentleman , To whom my father is not all unknown ; And were his daughter fairer than she is , She may more suitors have and me for one .
Fair Leda 's daughter had a thousand wooers ; Then well one more may fair Bianca have : And so she shall ; Lucentio shall make one , Though Paris came in hope to speed alone .
GREMIO : What !
this gentleman will out-talk us all .
LUCENTIO : Sir , give him head : I know he 'll prove a jade .
PETRUCHIO : Hortensio , to what end are all these words ?
HORTENSIO : Sir , let me be so bold as ask you , Did you yet ever see Baptista 's daughter ?
TRANIO : No , sir ; but hear I do that he hath two , The one as famous for a scolding tongue As is the other for beauteous modesty .
PETRUCHIO : Sir , sir , the first 's for me ; let her go by .
GREMIO : Yea , leave that labour to great Hercules ; And let it be more than Alcides ' twelve .
PETRUCHIO : Sir , understand you this of me in sooth : The youngest daughter whom you hearken for Her father keeps from all access of suitors , And will not promise her to any man Until the elder sister first be wed : The younger then is free and not before .
TRANIO : If it be so , sir , that you are the man Must stead us all and me amongst the rest , And if you break the ice and do this feat , Achieve the elder , set the younger free For our access , whose hap shall be to have her Will not so graceless be to be ingrate .
HORTENSIO : Sir , you say well and well you do conceive ; And since you do profess to be a suitor , You must , as we do , gratify this gentleman , To whom we all rest generally beholding .
TRANIO : Sir , I shall not be slack : in sign whereof , Please ye we may contrive this afternoon , And quaff carouses to our mistress ' health , And do as adversaries do in law , Strive mightily , but eat and drink as friends .
GRUMIO : O excellent motion !
Fellows , let 's be gone .
HORTENSIO : The motion 's good indeed and be it so , Petruchio , I shall be your ben venuto .
BIANCA : Good sister , wrong me not , nor wrong yourself , To make a bondmaid and a slave of me ; That I disdain : but for these other gawds , Unbind my hands , I 'll pull them off myself , Yea , all my raiment , to my petticoat ; Or what you will command me will I do , So well I know my duty to my elders .
KATHARINA : Of all thy suitors , here I charge thee , tell Whom thou lovest best : see thou dissemble not .
BIANCA : Believe me , sister , of all the men alive I never yet beheld that special face Which I could fancy more than any other .
KATHARINA : Minion , thou liest .
Is't not Hortensio ?
BIANCA : If you affect him , sister , here I swear I 'll plead for you myself , but you shall have him .
KATHARINA : O then , belike , you fancy riches more : You will have Gremio to keep you fair .
BIANCA : Is it for him you do envy me so ?
Nay then you jest , and now I well perceive You have but jested with me all this while : I prithee , sister Kate , untie my hands .
KATHARINA : If that be jest , then all the rest was so .
BAPTISTA : Why , how now , dame !
whence grows this insolence ?
Bianca , stand aside .
Poor girl !
she weeps .
Go ply thy needle ; meddle not with her .
For shame , thou helding of a devilish spirit , Why dost thou wrong her that did ne'er wrong thee ?
When did she cross thee with a bitter word ?
KATHARINA : Her silence flouts me , and I 'll be revenged .
BAPTISTA : What , in my sight ?
Bianca , get thee in .
KATHARINA : What , will you not suffer me ?
Nay , now I see She is your treasure , she must have a husband ; I must dance bare-foot on her wedding day And for your love to her lead apes in hell .
Talk not to me : I will go sit and weep Till I can find occasion of revenge .
BAPTISTA : Was ever gentleman thus grieved as I ?
But who comes here ?
GREMIO : Good morrow , neighbour Baptista .
BAPTISTA : Good morrow , neighbour Gremio .
God save you , gentlemen !
PETRUCHIO : And you , good sir !
Pray , have you not a daughter Call 'd Katharina , fair and virtuous ?
BAPTISTA : I have a daughter , sir , called Katharina .
GREMIO : You are too blunt : go to it orderly .
PETRUCHIO : You wrong me , Signior Gremio : give me leave .
I am a gentleman of Verona , sir , That , hearing of her beauty and her wit , Her affability and bashful modesty , Her wondrous qualities and mild behavior , Am bold to show myself a forward guest Within your house , to make mine eye the witness Of that report which I so oft have heard .
And , for an entrance to my entertainment , I do present you with a man of mine , Cunning in music and the mathematics , To instruct her fully in those sciences , Whereof I know she is not ignorant : Accept of him , or else you do me wrong : His name is Licio , born in Mantua .
BAPTISTA : You 're welcome , sir ; and he , for your good sake .
But for my daughter Katharina , this I know , She is not for your turn , the more my grief .
PETRUCHIO : I see you do not mean to part with her , Or else you like not of my company .
BAPTISTA : Mistake me not ; I speak but as I find .
Whence are you , sir ?
what may I call your name ?
PETRUCHIO : Petruchio is my name ; Antonio 's son , A man well known throughout all Italy .
BAPTISTA : I know him well : you are welcome for his sake .
GREMIO : Saving your tale , Petruchio , I pray , Let us , that are poor petitioners , speak too : Baccare !
you are marvellous forward .
PETRUCHIO : O , pardon me , Signior Gremio ; I would fain be doing .
GREMIO : I doubt it not , sir ; but you will curse your wooing .
Neighbour , this is a gift very grateful , I am sure of it .
To express the like kindness , myself , that have been more kindly beholding to you than any , freely give unto you this young scholar , that hath been long studying at Rheims ; as cunning in Greek , Latin , and other languages , as the other in music and mathematics : his name is Cambio ; pray , accept his service .
BAPTISTA : A thousand thanks , Signior Gremio .
Welcome , good Cambio .
But , gentle sir , methinks you walk like a stranger : may I be so bold to know the cause of your coming ?
TRANIO : Pardon me , sir , the boldness is mine own , That , being a stranger in this city here , Do make myself a suitor to your daughter , Unto Bianca , fair and virtuous .
Nor is your firm resolve unknown to me , In the preferment of the eldest sister .
This liberty is all that I request , That , upon knowledge of my parentage , I may have welcome 'mongst the rest that woo And free access and favour as the rest : And , toward the education of your daughters , I here bestow a simple instrument , And this small packet of Greek and Latin books : If you accept them , then their worth is great .
BAPTISTA : Lucentio is your name ; of whence , I pray ?
TRANIO : Of Pisa , sir ; son to Vincentio .
BAPTISTA : A mighty man of Pisa ; by report I know him well : you are very welcome , sir , Take you the lute , and you the set of books ; You shall go see your pupils presently .
Holla , within !
Sirrah , lead these gentlemen To my daughters ; and tell them both , These are their tutors : bid them use them well .
We will go walk a little in the orchard , And then to dinner .
You are passing welcome , And so I pray you all to think yourselves .
PETRUCHIO : Signior Baptista , my business asketh haste , And every day I can not come to woo .
You knew my father well , and in him me , Left solely heir to all his lands and goods , Which I have better 'd rather than decreased : Then tell me , if I get your daughter 's love , What dowry shall I have with her to wife ?
BAPTISTA : After my death the one half of my lands , And in possession twenty thousand crowns .
PETRUCHIO : And , for that dowry , I 'll assure her of Her widowhood , be it that she survive me , In all my lands and leases whatsoever : Let specialties be therefore drawn between us , That covenants may be kept on either hand .
BAPTISTA : Ay , when the special thing is well obtain 'd , That is , her love ; for that is all in all .
PETRUCHIO : Why , that is nothing : for I tell you , father , I am as peremptory as she proud-minded ; And where two raging fires meet together They do consume the thing that feeds their fury : Though little fire grows great with little wind , Yet extreme gusts will blow out fire and all : So I to her and so she yields to me ; For I am rough and woo not like a babe .
BAPTISTA : Well mayst thou woo , and happy be thy speed !
But be thou arm 'd for some unhappy words .
PETRUCHIO : Ay , to the proof ; as mountains are for winds , That shake not , though they blow perpetually .
BAPTISTA : How now , my friend !
why dost thou look so pale ?
HORTENSIO : For fear , I promise you , if I look pale .
BAPTISTA : What , will my daughter prove a good musician ?
HORTENSIO : I think she 'll sooner prove a soldier Iron may hold with her , but never lutes .
BAPTISTA : Why , then thou canst not break her to the lute ?
HORTENSIO : Why , no ; for she hath broke the lute to me .
I did but tell her she mistook her frets , And bow 'd her hand to teach her fingering ; When , with a most impatient devilish spirit , 'Frets , call you these ? '
quoth she ; ' I 'll fume with them : ' And , with that word , she struck me on the head , And through the instrument my pate made way ; And there I stood amazed for a while , As on a pillory , looking through the lute ; While she did call me rascal fiddler And twangling Jack ; with twenty such vile terms , As had she studied to misuse me so .
PETRUCHIO : Now , by the world , it is a lusty wench ; I love her ten times more than e'er I did : O , how I long to have some chat with her !
BAPTISTA : Well , go with me and be not so discomfited : Proceed in practise with my younger daughter ; She 's apt to learn and thankful for good turns .
Signior Petruchio , will you go with us , Or shall I send my daughter Kate to you ?
PETRUCHIO : I pray you do .
I will attend her here , And woo her with some spirit when she comes .
Say that she rail ; why then I 'll tell her plain She sings as sweetly as a nightingale : Say that she frown , I 'll say she looks as clear As morning roses newly wash 'd with dew : Say she be mute and will not speak a word ; Then I 'll commend her volubility , And say she uttereth piercing eloquence : If she do bid me pack , I 'll give her thanks , As though she bid me stay by her a week : If she deny to wed , I 'll crave the day When I shall ask the banns and when be married .
But here she comes ; and now , Petruchio , speak .
Good morrow , Kate ; for that 's your name , I hear .
KATHARINA : Well have you heard , but something hard of hearing : They call me Katharina that do talk of me .
PETRUCHIO : You lie , in faith ; for you are call 'd plain Kate , And bonny Kate and sometimes Kate the curst ; But Kate , the prettiest Kate in Christendom Kate of Kate Hall , my super-dainty Kate , For dainties are all Kates , and therefore , Kate , Take this of me , Kate of my consolation ; Hearing thy mildness praised in every town , Thy virtues spoke of , and thy beauty sounded , Yet not so deeply as to thee belongs , Myself am moved to woo thee for my wife .
KATHARINA : Moved !
in good time : let him that moved you hither Remove you hence : I knew you at the first You were a moveable .
PETRUCHIO : Why , what 's a moveable ?
KATHARINA : A join'd-stool .
PETRUCHIO : Thou hast hit it : come , sit on me .
KATHARINA : Asses are made to bear , and so are you .
PETRUCHIO : Women are made to bear , and so are you .
KATHARINA : No such jade as you , if me you mean .
PETRUCHIO : Alas !
good Kate , I will not burden thee ; For , knowing thee to be but young and light -- KATHARINA : Too light for such a swain as you to catch ; And yet as heavy as my weight should be .
PETRUCHIO : Should be !
should -- buzz !
KATHARINA : Well ta'en , and like a buzzard .
PETRUCHIO : O slow-wing 'd turtle !
shall a buzzard take thee ?
KATHARINA : Ay , for a turtle , as he takes a buzzard .
PETRUCHIO : Come , come , you wasp ; i ' faith , you are too angry .
KATHARINA : If I be waspish , best beware my sting .
PETRUCHIO : My remedy is then , to pluck it out .
KATHARINA : Ay , if the fool could find it where it lies , PETRUCHIO : Who knows not where a wasp does wear his sting ?
In his tail .
KATHARINA : In his tongue .
PETRUCHIO : Whose tongue ?
KATHARINA : Yours , if you talk of tails : and so farewell .
PETRUCHIO : What , with my tongue in your tail ?
nay , come again , Good Kate ; I am a gentleman .
KATHARINA : That I 'll try .
PETRUCHIO : I swear I 'll cuff you , if you strike again .
KATHARINA : So may you lose your arms : If you strike me , you are no gentleman ; And if no gentleman , why then no arms .
PETRUCHIO : A herald , Kate ?
O , put me in thy books !
KATHARINA : What is your crest ?
a coxcomb ?
PETRUCHIO : A combless cock , so Kate will be my hen .
KATHARINA : No cock of mine ; you crow too like a craven .
PETRUCHIO : Nay , come , Kate , come ; you must not look so sour .
KATHARINA : It is my fashion , when I see a crab .
PETRUCHIO : Why , here 's no crab ; and therefore look not sour .
KATHARINA : There is , there is .
PETRUCHIO : Then show it me .
KATHARINA : Had I a glass , I would .
PETRUCHIO : What , you mean my face ?
KATHARINA : Well aim 'd of such a young one .
PETRUCHIO : Now , by Saint George , I am too young for you .
KATHARINA : Yet you are wither 'd .
PETRUCHIO : 'T is with cares .
KATHARINA : I care not .
PETRUCHIO : Nay , hear you , Kate : in sooth you scape not so .
KATHARINA : I chafe you , if I tarry : let me go .
PETRUCHIO : No , not a whit : I find you passing gentle .
'T was told me you were rough and coy and sullen , And now I find report a very liar ; For thou are pleasant , gamesome , passing courteous , But slow in speech , yet sweet as spring-time flowers : Thou canst not frown , thou canst not look askance , Nor bite the lip , as angry wenches will , Nor hast thou pleasure to be cross in talk , But thou with mildness entertain'st thy wooers , With gentle conference , soft and affable .
Why does the world report that Kate doth limp ?
O slanderous world !
Kate like the hazel-twig Is straight and slender and as brown in hue As hazel nuts and sweeter than the kernels .
O , let me see thee walk : thou dost not halt .
KATHARINA : Go , fool , and whom thou keep'st command .
PETRUCHIO : Did ever Dian so become a grove As Kate this chamber with her princely gait ?
O , be thou Dian , and let her be Kate ; And then let Kate be chaste and Dian sportful !
KATHARINA : Where did you study all this goodly speech ?
PETRUCHIO : It is extempore , from my mother-wit .
KATHARINA : A witty mother !
witless else her son .
PETRUCHIO : Am I not wise ?
KATHARINA : Yes ; keep you warm .
PETRUCHIO : Marry , so I mean , sweet Katharina , in thy bed : And therefore , setting all this chat aside , Thus in plain terms : your father hath consented That you shall be my wife ; your dowry 'greed on ; And , Will you , nill you , I will marry you .
Now , Kate , I am a husband for your turn ; For , by this light , whereby I see thy beauty , Thy beauty , that doth make me like thee well , Thou must be married to no man but me ; For I am he am born to tame you Kate , And bring you from a wild Kate to a Kate Conformable as other household Kates .
Here comes your father : never make denial ; I must and will have Katharina to my wife .
BAPTISTA : Now , Signior Petruchio , how speed you with my daughter ?
PETRUCHIO : How but well , sir ?
how but well ?
It were impossible I should speed amiss .
BAPTISTA : Why , how now , daughter Katharina !
in your dumps ?
KATHARINA : Call you me daughter ?
now , I promise you You have show 'd a tender fatherly regard , To wish me wed to one half lunatic ; A mad-cup ruffian and a swearing Jack , That thinks with oaths to face the matter out .
PETRUCHIO : Father , 't is thus : yourself and all the world , That talk 'd of her , have talk 'd amiss of her : If she be curst , it is for policy , For she 's not froward , but modest as the dove ; She is not hot , but temperate as the morn ; For patience she will prove a second Grissel , And Roman Lucrece for her chastity : And to conclude , we have 'greed so well together , That upon Sunday is the wedding-day .
KATHARINA : I 'll see thee hang 'd on Sunday first .
GREMIO : Hark , Petruchio ; she says she 'll see thee hang 'd first .
TRANIO : Is this your speeding ?
nay , then , good night our part !
PETRUCHIO : Be patient , gentlemen ; I choose her for myself : If she and I be pleased , what 's that to you ?
'T is bargain 'd 'twixt us twain , being alone , That she shall still be curst in company .
I tell you , 't is incredible to believe How much she loves me : O , the kindest Kate !
She hung about my neck ; and kiss on kiss